INSTALLING REPORT MAGIC

Installation

The first time you install Report Magic can be somewhat complicated. Please 
read through the instructions on this page completely before starting so you 
have a good idea of what will be required. Because much of Report Magic is 
built with reusable code, upgrades will be simple. For upgrade notes, see the 
docs/whatsnew.html page. These instructions and the included Install.PL script 
assume you are using a Unix-like system. If not, it is up to you to make the 
necessary translations in the instructions and the Install.PL file to reflect 
you computer's file system.

To run Report Magic, you need to have Perl 5.004 or newer installed on your 
system. You can find the version of Perl that you have by typing 'perl -v' at 
the prompt. If the system says 'unknown command' you either do not have Perl 
installed or it is not on your path. If you don't have it see 
http://www.perl.com/ for details on getting the Perl interpreter. Compiled 
binaries for Perl are available for almost every platform.

Before installing for the first time, you will need to install some system 
libraries if they aren't already installed. To generate the graphs, Report 
Magic needs three libraries - zlib, libpng and libgd. If you want TrueType font 
support in your graphs, you can also install the lttf TrueType library from 
FreeType.

zlib 
    The zlib compression library can be acquired from http://www.gzip.org/zlib/. 
    Download the source code archive and extract it. Read the 
    installation documentation and the license. On most systems (Solaris is an 
    exception) you will not have to build the zlib library if you don't want. 
    When you build libpng, it incorporates the source files rather than the 
    actual lib files. If you choose to build and install zlib (or your system 
    requires that you do) Then do the standard install procedure: 

            $ ./configure
            $ make
            # make install (as root)

libpng 
    Installing libpng is a little more complicated. You can acquire the latest 
    version from http://download.sourceforge.net/libpng/. Look for something like 
    'libpng-x.x.x.tar.gz', where x.x.x is the newest (i.e. highest) version 
    number. Download this and extract it. Read the installation documentation 
    and the license. You need to have the zlib, that you just uncompressed, on 
    the same level as the libpng directory and they should both be named
    without their versions. Your directory structure should look like this: 

            |
            +- zlib
            |
            +- libpng

    Something like this should do it, but may differ from system to system. 
    You'll have to remove the archive before doing this (rm *.tar or 
    rm *.tar.gz depending on your tar version). You should choose one of the 
    makefiles in the libpng/scripts directory according to your system (e.g. 
    scripts/makefile.linux for Linux or scripts/makefile.sunos for Solaris).: 

            $ mv zlib* zlib
            $ mv libpng* libpng
            $ cd libpng
            $ cp scripts/makefile.stf Makefile
            $ make
            # make install (as root)

freetype (Optional) 
    If you want to allow support for TrueType fonts in your graphs you can 
    install freetype. This library is not required for installation, but may be 
    useful. (If you intend to output in Japanese or Polish, you will need this 
    library installed. It is also helpful for Italian ouput.) You can download 
    lttf from http://freetype.sourceforge.net/download.html. After reading the 
    installation instructions and license, you can build it with the standard 
    techinique: 

            $ ./configure
            $ make
            # make install (as root)

jpeg-6b
    The jpeg-6b library may already be installed on your system. Check /lib, 
    /usr/lib, and /usr/local/lib or your system's equivalents. If not it can 
    be downloaded from the Independent JPEG Group at 
    ftp://ftp.uu.net/graphics/jpeg/. After reading the installation 
    instructions and license, you can build it with the following commands:

            $ ./configure --enable-shared
            $ make
            $ make test
            # make install (as root)

libgd 
    Installing libgd should then be straight-forward. Download the latest 
    version from link at the top of http://www.boutell.com/gd/ and extract it. 
    Read the installation documentation and the license. You will need to 
    edit the Makefile to have it include support for jpeg or freetype. You may 
    also have to add -I/usr/local/include/freetype to the INCLUDEDIRS= line to 
    make it work with freetype-1.3.1. You can then build the library with the 
    standard: 

            $ make
            # make install (as root)

If all system libraries installed successfully, then the rest should be quite 
simple. To install change to root user, change directory into the rmagic 
directory where you uncompressed the Report Magic archive and type the 
following command:

        perl Install.PL

If all goes well, this will load all the necessary Perl modules (that aren't 
already loaded and up-to-date), install Report Magic in the directory 
/usr/local/etc/httpd/rmagic/ (or similar directory with version number) and 
install the documentation below that.

If you want to install Report Magic elsewhere, simply edit the configuration 
settings in the top of the Install.PL file.

Autoloading the required perl modules from CPAN may require several more steps. 
First, this uses the CPAN module to load modules from CPAN. You will need to 
configure this the first time it runs by answering serveral questions. It also 
requires that you are connected to the Internet (or a local CPAN mirror if you 
have such and your CPAN module has been configured for such). Second, using 
this may be a security risk. There is no signature system for CPAN code. It is 
possible (though unlikely) that CPAN downloads may have been tampered with. If 
this bothers you, don't run this part of the install. Instead install all the 
modules by hand (see below). (Although, this still could contain tampered 
modules, but at least you can look at all the sources first before you put them 
in your Perl site library.)

When configuring your CPAN setup, you will be asked for the URL of your 
favorite CPAN site. On some systems this includes a list to choose from, on 
some it doesn't. If no list is presented, you can type in 
'ftp://ftp.cpan.org/CPAN'.

While the install script is running, watch carefully for any errors. The script 
will continue to try to install all necessary Perl even if some fail. This may 
mean that other will fail later (because of dependencies). Also, the latest 
version of GD will ask you some question about the way libgd was installed on 
your system.

If you don't want to auto-load the latest version of the necessary Perl modules, 
use this instead:

        perl Install.PL -no_modules

If you just want to auto-load the latest version of the necessary Perl modules, 
but don't want to move Report Magic (i.e. you will run it from the directory 
you unarchived it into) use this instead:

        perl Install.PL -only_modules


For instructions on manually install Perl modules, see docs/inst_src.html.

